This is
a really nice room.
Yeah, it sounds thick.
Too bad he's not coming.
Look, I talked to him myself.
He'll be here.
Right.
You're the one who said
that the song could use a horn part,
- so I got the best, John Henry.
- You think I'm stupid?
Of course I do,
but that's not the point.
He'll be here, okay?
Take a left up ahead.
South Street?
I canceled this gig.
You said you didn't want to do
any sessions for a while.
For a while.
I called her. I un-canceled it.
- Are you up to it?
- Let's find out.
You lied to me
John Henry's
never gonna show up
Will you stop?
- It's been, like, two hours.
- And we will keep waiting.
I mean, you've heard this guy play,
and you know what he does,
so can you just
shut up, Tommy?
Oh, my God.
Am I late?
- You need to hear it again?
- Nope. I get it.
Let's try one. See what we get.
Let's do it.
John, you okay?
- You okay?
- I can't breathe. I can't breathe.
Call an ambulance!
Now!
I want in.
John Henry Giles,
you a fan of his music?
He's a musician?
That paralysis thing,
guy can't walk for two years,
nobody knows why,
it seems mildly interesting.
Forget his paralysis.
Tell that to the rest
of his bowling team.
As far as this
hospital is concerned,
this is a simple case
of lobar pneumonia. Boring.
But that not-walking thing.
That could turn into something serious.
Marty Hamilton is his primary physician
out in California.
He's dealing
with the paralysis.
Know all about it.
Multiple treatments, multiple surgeries.
He's making real progress.
Fixed everything
but the legs.
Dr. Hamilton already called
and asked for your team.
And by team,
I don't mean you.
Like I always say,
there's no "I" in team.
There is a "me" though,
if you jumble it up.
Foreman did his
residency with Hamilton.
I know. I accidentally glanced
at his resume before I hired him.
He wants someone
he can trust.
He must've spoken to
Foreman's parole officer.
Someone who will stick
to the pneumonia.
John Henry's on an experimental
protocol for the paralysis.
I respect that.
I'm not going to get in his way.
- It's Foreman's case.
- It's pneumonia. He can handle it.
The guy's already paralyzed.
How badly can he screw it up?
So, what are his sats?
Staying in the 90s
on the nasal cannula.
Coughing up
much sputum?
Almost none.
He seems to be stabilized.
Dr. House,
is anything back from micro?
Not yet. You gonna fire me?
You can make up for it
by washing my car.
Oh, this is fun.
Okay. Let's keep him
on the broad-spectrum antibiotics.
And since he's displaying
septic physiology,
draw blood for adrenal
and thyroid function.
What about the paralysis?
We're sticking
to the pneumonia.
Well, you certainly are, boss,
like a wet tongue sticks to dry ice.
The paralysis has already been
diagnosed by Dr. Hamilton. It's ALS.
Lou Gehrig's disease.
It's a lovely diagnosis.
They make movies about it.
No tests, no treatment,
it's a disease of exclusion.
Because Hamilton has
excluded everything else.
I haven't.
What else could it be?
Guillain-Barre,
which would be reversible.
Excellent.
No. The progression of the paralysis
would be symmetric. This wasn't.
Transverse myelitis.
Hamilton tested for it.
Negative.
And he was negative
for masses and AVM.
Antibodies could be
attacking the nerves.
Multifocal motor
neuropathy.
Uncommon, but it fits.
It's also treatable.
Did Hamilton try
putting the guy on IVIg?
No, because
the MRI showed no...
Well, let's do
an MRI of our own.
Guys, it's my case.
ALS fits. It even
predicts the pneumonia.
- The paralysis is progressive.
- It's a death sentence.
That doesn't make it wrong.
So you think the breathing stuff
is connected to my ALS?
It makes sense.
So it's just
gonna get worse, huh?
- Well, Dr. Hamilton...
- Great guy.
Really smart doctor, and his treatment
obviously isn't working.
Do you think
I'm going to die here,
or you think I get to
go back home first?
An MRI would give
us a better idea...
An MRI, come on.
For pneumonia?
Well, Dr. House thinks
we should test for...
House?
Yeah, I heard about him.
Obsessive son of a bitch?
That's him.
So who do you think is right,
Hamilton or House?
Hey, they're both
excellent physicians.
Come on.
One of them says ALS.
The other one says not ALS.
You got to pick one, son.
Everything points to ALS.
Then no MRI.
And I want one of them
papers that say
I don't want nothing done
if something go bad.
A DNR?
Mr. Giles, you don't
want to rush into...
It's been two years. I ain't rushing.
I want to sign one.
Now.
While my arm still works.
He signed a DNR.
He rhymes with dinner?
- He signed a DNR.
- Oh. That makes more sense.
You tell him
it might not be ALS?
No.
Well, no wonder he signed.
Who wouldn't?
I started him
on IV steroids and Synthroid.
Great. If it was my case,
I'd be adding a little IVIg to the mix.
For his pneumonia?
That's my story,
and I'm sticking to it.
He doesn't want anything done,
no treatment.
DNR means "do not resuscitate",
not "do not treat".
You do nothing,
doesn't matter which one of us is right.
And hang on to that DNR.
That signature could be worth
a lot of money real soon.
This is Dr. Foreman.
What's Mr. Giles's status?
Okay. Increase the steroids
to 100 milligrams every 12 hours
and start him on IVIg.
Yeah, yeah, I'm sure.
One gram per kilo.
My nature isn't
what it used to be.
The little man has lost
some bounce in his step.
He needs to crank it up,
have himself some fun this weekend.
He wants the blue pills.
You're talking about your penis
in the third person.
- Me and him, two people.
- Separate vacations?
That'd be a drag for one of you.
I don't think you need the pills.
I think you have
a conflict in medications.
You need to up your insulin
to chocolate-chip ice-cream levels.
- Insulin?
- Yeah, you remember.
That's the stuff
you take for the diabetes
that you forgot to
tell the nurse about.
Your hands.
No hair,
which means nerve damage.
And your shoes look
about two sizes too small,
which means you've lost
sensation in your feet.
And then there's your pants.
My pants tell you
I have diabetes?
No. They tell me
you're an idiot.
Powdered sugar
on the right pant leg.
Based on the two napkins
in your pocket,
I'd be willing to bet
it's not your first donut of the day.
- You're giving me the pills?
- Sure. Why not?
If you've got heart disease from
ignoring the diabetes, they'll kill you.
Otherwise, you two
have a fun weekend.
- O2 sats are dropping.
- Breath sounds?
Junky.
- Mucus plug?
- Our mistake. Sludging from the IVIg.
Blood can't get
through to his lungs.
Start heparin,
500 ccs IV push.
He won't last long
enough for it to work.
We've got to
intubate him stat.
- We can't. He's DNR.
- What?
- Someone likes music.
- Oh, yeah.
His sats are in the 70s.
How long's he been like this?
- Ten minutes.
- Well, why aren't you...
The IVIg put him
in respiratory failure.
You put him on IVIg?
- We did this.
- So undo it. Chase?
It's too late.
We killed him.
Nobody killed him.
He's not dead.
- Chase, intubate him.
- He's DNR.
What are you doing?
You can't do this!
- Bag.
- You can't do this.
Bag!
He had a bad reaction
to some medicine we gave him.
- What did you just do?
- He saved his life.
He's stable on the ventilator,
oxygenating well.
The IVIg made him worse,
which means multifocal motor
neuropathy was a bad diagnosis.
Okay, what's
really wrong with him?
What's wrong with you?
Everyone knows
what's wrong with me.
What's wrong with him
is much more interesting.
You tubed him,
and he didn't want to be tubed.
He has a legal paper
saying just that.
To intubate or not to intubate,
that is the big ethical question.
Actually, I was hoping
we could avoid it,
maybe just
practice some medicine.
There is no question.
It's the patient's decision.
If the patient is
competent to make it.
If his thyroid numbers
aren't making him sad.
Oh, my God.
You don't believe that.
His thyroid levels
were a little...
It's nothing.
Do not defend him!
Why did he sign that DNR?
I didn't talk him into...
No. He signed
the DNR 'cause he didn't
want a slow,
painful death from ALS.
What was happening to him
had nothing to do with his ALS.
Right, exactly! It's the IVIg.
You screwed up!
You're not going to let him die
because you screwed up.
Technically, your case,
you screwed up.
Is that what this is about,
looking bad in front of your old boss?
You assaulted that man.
- Fine, I'll never do it again.
- Yes, you will.
All the more reason
this debate is pointless.
His lungs are worse.
Any theories?
Oh, I'm sure he just went to the
little boys' room. Come on, people.
Vasculitis?
Wouldn't likely
hit both lungs.
It could be
Wegener's granulomatosis.
Dr. House?
Cuddy sent me
a stripper again?
Love that woman,
so thoughtful.
Sorry.
There are case
reports of Wegener's
hitting both
the lungs and the spine.
Well, it's not great, but it's better
than ALS. At least it's treatable.
It's a restraining order.
You're not to come within 50 feet
of John Henry Giles,
and they've asked the D.A.
to file criminal charges for battery.
- Cameron, test the blood for c-ANCA.
- These are criminal charges.
They're not going to let you
take blood to make more tests.
He has blood left
in the lab.
Just add on the c-ANCA.
Foreman got you doing bronchoscopic
suctioning for the pneumonia?
Every four hours.
Well, while you're down in his lungs,
grab a biopsy.
We'll need it to
confirm Wegener's.
And move the patient
to the second-floor ICU.
- Why?
- It's right above the clinic.
I'm pretty sure it's
50 feet in any direction.
It's nice having a court order saying
you don't have to work clinic duty.
Dr. Cuddy!
Excuse me.
- You paged me.
- Why the yelling?
His bed is behind that wall,
the plaintiff's.
I can't, you know,
come any closer.
It's right over the clinic.
Very cute.
Can we get the lecture over with
'cause I've got to...
Actually, I've got nothing to do.
Take your time.
You need a lawyer?
You don't have
a problem with what I did?
When I hired you,
I knew you were insane.
I will continue to try and stop you
from doing insane things,
but once they're done,
trying to convince an insane person
not to do insane things is,
in itself, insane,
so when I hired you, I also set aside
$50,000 a year for legal expenses.
So far, you've come in
under-budget.
Great. Any chance you could
help me run some tests?
Dr. Foreman called Dr. Hamilton.
He's flying in from LA.
You can talk to him.
Dr. Hamilton is flying in as a friend
of John Henry's to pull the plug.
Yeah. I need a lawyer.
Your Honor,
on behalf of Gregory House,
we have convened
an emergency session of this court
to bring a motion requesting that
John Henry Giles remain on life support.
Mr. House faces criminal charges
for battery against John Henry Giles.
You beat up a guy
in a wheelchair?
Dr. House is alleged
to have forced a tube
down Mr. Giles's throat
against his will.
A medical tube,
saving his life.
Dr. House, please let
your attorney speak for you.
I'm sorry, Your Honor,
I was way out of line.
So, your client forced
the patient into this position,
and now he wants a court order
to force the patient to stay that way.
Without the tube, there's a high
likelihood that Mr. Giles will die.
Well, I assume the patient knows that.
He had a DNR.
That's why your client is facing
criminal charges, right?
Exactly.
And Mr. Giles's death
will violate my client's
Sixth Amendment right.
His right to face his accuser.
That's clever, huh?
Your Honor, in Commonwealth
of Pennsylvania v. Hoselton,
the Third District
ruled that a defendant
may not use that status
to rule against a felony charge.
Why are you doing this?
It's not gonna keep you out of jail.
No.
Even if you win,
the restraining order
and battery charge stay in place,
so what have you gained?
Time.
To diagnose him?
You can't get near him.
I don't want to
be near him.
Well, some doctors have
the messiah complex.
They need to
save the world.
You've got
the Rubik's complex.
You need to
solve the puzzle.
Are you done, or do you have more
references to 1980s fads?
I'm trying to
listen to this.
That DNR
may not be valid.
The patient was
suffering from depression,
brought on by
a thyroid imbalance.
The DNR order was witnessed
by Dr. House's own staff, Dr. Foreman.
My staff are idiots.
I'm sure you know
what it's like, Your Honor.
Sit down.
The validity
of the DNR is a question of fact.
Dr. House should
have the opportunity
to make his argument
at a full trial.
And this poor guy
has got to stay
on life support
until we can schedule a trial.
Your Honor.
Dr. House,
I will hold you in contempt
if you don't sit down.
I have a medical issue.
If it pertains to this case,
your attorney...
It doesn't.
Do you have any history
of heart disease in your family?
Your Honor!
Your fingers.
They show signs of clubbing,
which indicates a heart problem.
Remember Bart Giamatti?
Same thing,
just dropped dead one day.
Please see your doctor.
He's admitted
this isn't relevant.
Can we get back
to the motion?
Of course. I'm sorry.
Your Honor,
a person's right to control the
treatment of their own body
is fundamental to
understanding this case.
A long line of cases,
both federal and state, stand to...
Congratulations.
Impressive legal argument.
I watched Matlock
last night.
Say no more.
I didn't notice any clubbing
on the judge's fingers.
Neither did I.
So the family
history thing...
Every family has some history
of heart disease.
And mental illness.
Biopsy only shows inflammation.
Start him on Cytoxan.
You're diagnosing Wegener's
based on a little inflammation?
Well, unfortunately, I think we've
exhausted all the tests we can do
in our capacity as the doctors
that he doesn't want doing tests on him.
But you don't...
We'll know I'm right
if he starts walking.
We can't do any more tests,
but you want me to treat him?
Medicine's in the pharmacy.
Patient's immobilized
in the ICU.
Sounds like
a simple geography problem.
Are you asking us
to jeopardize
our medical licenses
for this treatment?
Can I help you?
I'm Dr. House.
Greg, right? I'm Marty Hamilton,
John Henry's doctor.
We should talk.
Appreciate any list of medications,
anything like that.
I've started him on Cytoxan.
For Wegener's, right?
Look, Greg.
I checked you out, you know?
I know you're a good doctor,
and you have to appreciate
that I'm a good doctor, too.
Why?
Wegener's is one of the first
things I looked for.
The biopsy and the blood test
were negative, just like yours.
There's an error rate, Marty.
And there's
a time to let go.
Look, I'm gonna take him
off the ventilator,
and John Henry's
going to die.
He's accepted that.
Dr. Hamilton.
- Hey.
- Hey, how you doing?
- How you doing?
Listen, Dr. Hamilton,
I'm sorry.
I should have never
put your patient on IVIg.
It's not your fault, Eric.
No, it's mine, Eric.
That's not what I said.
Everybody asks
about you out in LA.
How's
the old place doing?
Oh, this is wonderful, but before
you guys break out the oil,
I should point
out that you can't
pull the plug.
I have a court order.
You used to, but...
I have the right to face my accuser.
Judge said so.
Not if no one's
accusing you.
All the charges
have been dropped.
He doesn't have to die.
It's not Wegener's.
If it's Wegener's,
his lungs won't be able to handle it.
Soon as they pull
that plug, he'll die.
That's why they call it
"pulling the plug".
I'm gonna miss you.
- He's still breathing.
- His O2 sats are holding.
- He's holding his own.
- He's still breathing.
It's not Wegener's.
Wrong again.
He's stable,
but one of his arms is now paralyzed.
The real question is,
why is he still alive?
Do you think he's
just being stubborn?
He's alive because you were wrong.
It's not Wegener's.
Yeah. Seem to be
doing that a lot lately.
People keep living
because of my mistakes.
Progression of
the paralysis pretty much
confirmed Hamilton was right.
It's ALS.
Assuming this is a progression
of his paralysis.
He can't move his arm.
Yes, his arm is paralyzed.
Yes, his legs are paralyzed.
Why is everyone so gung ho
to connect those two conditions?
You can think I'm wrong,
but that's no reason to stop thinking.
How about this one?
He's not our patient.
Nope. Not good enough.
He could've suffered a stroke
when he was intubated.
Well, blood clots are common
in paralyzed patients.
The inactivity causes...
Not interested in why.
Let's get an MR angiogram,
check for an embolic stroke.
He doesn't want
you treating him.
They dropped the court order.
Yeah, and that girl dropped
the charges against Kobe,
doesn't mean he should call her
and see if she's free to get a sundae.
Good point. But I can go
within 50 feet of him now.
If you need,
have them page me, anytime.
Okay.
Get out of here.
Sure. That makes sense.
You hate me for saving your life.
Well, in fairness
to your side,
you were also dying
because of me, so...
You knew I didn't
want to be saved.
That's what's interesting.
Your thyroid was low,
but not enough to cause depression.
So you came here to tell me
that even if I can't walk,
I can still hear
the birds sing,
enjoy a rainbow,
the feeling of sunshine on my face.
Those things are fun.
Okay. Life sucks.
Your life sucks
more than most.
It's not as bad as some,
which is depressing all by itself,
but do me a favor.
Just let me find out
what's wrong with you.
Then if you still
want to kill yourself,
I'll give you a hand.
That sound fair?
Yeah. Sure.
I'll stick around
to indulge your obsession.
It's over. I lost my air.
The session the other night
with those kids,
that was a test to see
if I could still play.
I can't.
And that's all
you are, a musician?
- I got one thing, same as you.
- Really?
Well, apparently,
you know me better than I know you.
I know that limp.
I know the empty ring finger.
And that obsessive nature of yours,
that's a big secret.
You don't risk jail
and your career
to save somebody
who doesn't want to be saved
unless you got something,
anything, one thing.
The reason normal people got wives
and kids and hobbies, whatever,
that's because they ain't got
that one thing that,
that hits them
that hard and that true.
I got music. You got this.
The thing you think about
all the time,
thing that keeps
you south of normal.
Yeah. Makes us great.
Makes us the best.
All we miss out on
is everything else.
Little woman waiting at home after work
with the drink and the kiss.
- That ain't gonna happen for us.
- That's why God made microwaves.
Yeah.
But when it's over,
it's over.
Yeah.
What are you doing?
It's not over for me.
Either you're gonna call the cops again,
or we're doing this.
You want to die, you can do it
just as easily inside an MRI machine.
That's another nice place.
Exactly.
So when I go back to LA, I'm doing
the Dana lectures again this year.
- Wow.
- Thank you.
Thanks.
That's quite an honor.
- It's all political.
- Don't be modest. You've earned it.
I got lucky on
a couple studies I was doing.
It all sells tickets.
You remember last year's lectures,
don't you?
I remember
the cigar bar afterwards.
The only reason to attend the thing,
cigars and pool.
You enjoy working with Dr. House?
Not the word I'd use.
We work too hard
not to enjoy ourselves, right?
- You seeing anybody?
- Kind of, sort of.
- Serious?
- I don't know. It could be.
You think she'd enjoy LA?
Hamilton offered me a job.
- You gonna take it?
- I haven't decided.
You already have
the most prestigious fellowship.
It's a partnership.
Three times the money, car allowance,
moving expense, pension plan,
the chance to work for a guy who gives
a crap what other people think.
So why didn't you
just tell him yes?
- I made a commitment here.
- Right.
House would let you out of it
in a heartbeat.
Or he wouldn't,
just to jerk me around.
Would you guys have
taken the job?
Don't need the money.
I'm not like you.
I don't hate House.
You guys really don't have a problem
with him, with what he did?
He knows we disagree
with his choice.
Choice? Chase, it's not
apples and oranges.
It's right and wrong.
And he does it
like he doesn't care.
He assaults
the guy and moves on
to the next differential diagnosis
like it's...
What do you
want from him?
More hand-wringing,
more torment?
You want him to cry himself
to sleep at night?
Yeah! Yeah, I want some clue
that he knows it's a big deal.
That it scares him,
that it matters.
Whoa!
What was that?
It was a stroke.
- Well done, Cameron.
- House called it.
The arm and legs
are unrelated.
You make enough calls,
one of them is bound to be right.
Yeah. He's just
a lucky, lucky guy.
Listen, listen. I just think it wouldn't
hurt him to learn a little humility.
So what's the verdict?
Embolus. The arm problem was
caused by a clot.
There's a good chance
we can still bust the clot with tPA.
Do it.
See what happens to his arm.
We found a blood clot
in your brain.
We'd like to start you on heparin.
It's a blood thinner.
What are the side effects?
Well, your lungs are kind of chewed up
from the pneumonia.
Good chance
there'll be an effusion.
- Bleeding?
- Into his lungs.
It's our best chance
to give you back the use of your arm.
I don't need my arm
without my air.
The damage would
likely be minimal.
No.
It's his call.
Or we could do
an embolectomy.
Basically, we go in
and pull the clot out.
He's saying no to drugs,
and you're recommending brain surgery?
Bypasses the risk
to the lungs.
It'll either help
your arm, or...
It'll kill me.
From your point of view,
it's a win-win.
Okay.
We'll set up
the procedure for today.
We're in your carotid artery.
This is gonna take us
all the way up into your brain.
You all right?
Yes.
The sludge is
blocking the blood flow to
the part of the brain
that controls your arm.
All done. You still okay?
I think so.
I don't know.
I guess...
It's just with
Dr. Hamilton here,
I noticed a difference in styles.
His style involves humility?
Another difference
in our styles,
I don't care much for apologies.
You can go.
I didn't know you were standing there
when I said that, okay?
It was completely rude.
Do you mean genuine humility,
you know, all the self-doubt
and the self-questioning,
or Hamilton's polite, patronizing,
aw-shucks humility?
You're both
excellent doctors.
Thank you.
And humility is
an important quality,
especially if
you're wrong a lot.
You've been wrong
every step of the way.
'Course, when you're right, self-doubt
doesn't help anybody, does it?
We got to go.
Congratulations, Greg.
Congratulations.
Why, Marty?
John woke up.
He can use his arm.
Thank you.
Now, look, I know we've had
our differences,
but I think when
a person does something well,
it ought to
be recognized.
The phone works.
Next time
you want to make me feel
all warm and fuzzy,
leave a message.
Don't get me wrong.
I'm overcome with joy.
- Doc.
- Yeah.
- What?
- You just touched my leg.
What, are you gonna charge me
with assault again?
No.
I felt it.
He now has feeling
all the way up to the calf.
This is the way
medicine evolved.
Patients sometimes
get better.
You have no idea why, but unless
you give a reason, they won't pay you.
Anybody notice
if there's a full moon?
You're saying he just
spontaneously got better?
No, I'm saying let's rule out
the lunar god and go from there.
Something he's on
is working.
The enzyme replacement protocol
is working, reversing the ALS.
The timing doesn't
seem suspicious to you?
Do you think Dr. House
will see it that way,
figure it's his medication
doing the job?
I'm sure he will.
It's one of ours.
How do we figure out which drug
is doing the trick?
Easy.
We just stop all of them.
One of those drugs
is helping him.
And the rest,
steroids, antibiotics,
anti-inflammatories,
they're toxic.
If we leave him
on all of them...
He'll walk again.
Yeah, to his own funeral.
But if we stop everything,
he'll get worse.
True. Then we'll add our medications
back one at a time.
When he gets better,
then we'll have our answer.
- And if he doesn't get better?
- Then we're in trouble.
Not as much as he is,
but I suppose that was your point.
I assume you want me
to convince Hamilton
to stop his treatments, too.
Don't care.
You know at least five of the
medications are part of his protocol.
If his stuff was helping, the guy
would be playing tennis months ago.
It's our round of
treatment that's helping.
Right. So that's
what you'll stop.
It shouldn't be more
than 15 to 20 minutes.
So your philosophy is,
if they don't want treatment,
they get it shoved down their throat,
but if it might cure their paralysis,
whoa, better slow down.
Yeah.
My old philosophy
used to be live and let live,
but I'm taking this
needlepoint class,
and they gave us
these really big pillows.
What's your philosophy
on employee relations?
That's a very tiny pillow.
Great. It sounds like
you know what you're doing.
Greg, can I have a word?
Can it wait for
the commercial, Marty?
Say hi to
my friend Jimmy.
Pleasure.
Your diagnostic trial.
Seriously, commercial's
in about five minutes.
That's a dangerous game.
Only if we're
watching in the bathtub.
I need to know exactly what medications
you were giving John Henry.
Forget it.
And if Foreman tells you
what John Henry used to be on...
- You're gonna fire him?
- Nope.
I'll make him live out every day
of his two-year contract.
- Foreman asked to leave?
- Not yet.
- But how do you know I made him...
- You're a polite twit, not an idiot.
I need to know what medications
you've taken him off of.
Wait a second.
You're not an idiot.
You need to know what medications
I've stopped because...
He's getting worse.
Right now you still
work for me. Come on.
No feeling, no wiggling.
Bad news is John Henry's back
where he started.
Good news is
Hamilton looks bad.
Yeah, it's not
whether you win or lose.
It's whether
the other guy loses.
What was the first thing
we put him on?
Steroids, for the pneumonia.
Well, put him back on them.
Give him 24 hours. See what happens.
His lungs
aren't great.
They might cause another
respiratory collapse.
I sure hope not.
I didn't much like that lawyer.
And get an MRI.
He already got one
and an MRA.
Well, obviously something is
different now. Do it again.
Chase, take care
of the scan.
Cameron, put him
on the steroids.
We should
probably talk, huh?
Thin cuts.
What levels?
T-9 through the cauda equina,
same as the last time.
You really think House would let
Foreman out of his contract?
He has to. If he doesn't,
he's telling Foreman he needs him.
House can't handle that.
Oh, my God.
I checked him out.
He's a great doctor.
You think he's
better than I am?
- This about your ego?
- Answer the question.
It's not gonna change
how I think about myself.
Might affect my
opinion of you,
but that shouldn't affect
your opinion of yourself.
Now I'm getting confused.
If you think he's a better doctor
than I am,
then you should take the job.
Otherwise, you should
get him to buy you
two or three more
nostalgic lunches
and then politely decline.
It's that simple? I should just
ignore the mockery and abuse?
- Oh, how do I abuse you?
- How do you not?
If I make a mistake...
I hold you accountable.
So what?
Dr. Hamilton forgives.
He's capable of moving on.
That is not what he does.
I screwed up his case.
He told me...
He never said
you were forgiven.
I was there. He said
it wasn't your fault.
- So?
- So, it was.
You took a chance.
You did something great.
You were wrong,
but it was still great.
You should feel great that it was great.
You should feel like crap
that it was wrong.
That's the difference
between him and me.
He thinks you do your job,
and what will be, will be.
I think that what I do
and what you do matters.
He sleeps better at night.
He shouldn't.
- Arteriovenous malformation.
- Intradural. Compressing his spine.
Causing his paralysis.
How could Hamilton
have missed an AVM?
Well, we missed it, too,
'cause it wasn't there before.
Are you saying it
just grew overnight?
No.
It was on the spine.
It wasn't on the MRI.
Same anatomic location.
It's not there.
- Well, what is there?
- Nothing.
Or something that
looks like nothing.
- Background noise, static?
- Scar tissue? Inflammation?
If it's inflammation,
the steroids would've shrunk it down.
Revealing the AVM,
which has always been there,
hiding behind its own swelling.
We remove that,
he'll walk again.
Dr. House.
Cora's meeting me
outside with the limo.
I'm being discharged.
50 bucks says
I can beat you to the curb.
Thanks for sticking
with the case.
I can't do anything else.
You're much more easily amused
when you can walk.
How bizarre.
I'm guessing that
you weren't exactly Mr. Sunshine
even before
your leg got messed up.
I want you to have this.
Wow.
You can sell it
if you want to.
Just promise me
you won't play it.
How many of those
pills you taking?
I'm in pain.
Yes.
Aren't we all?
So, where do you
buy these things?
Do they have cane stores?
Oh, don't worry about it. You'll be
jogging before you need a second one.
See you tomorrow,
Eric.